                     OUP UNCORRECTED PROOF – FIRSTPROOFS, Mon. Mar 31 2025, INTEGRA
       326                                                   FROM MADNESS TO MUTINY
           mental health services, and housing shortages. This undertaking
           was very difficult for a county that prided itself on professional-
           ism and polite conversation. Sometimes the conversations were so
           uncomfortable that people teared up or started yelling. In the end,
           however, these conversations made us all braver and more willing
           to air difficult topics and helped us begin to heal our systems so
           that we could heal our families . . . .
              . . . Each of the individual sectors developed and presented
           papers on difficult topics such as children witnessing domestic vio-
           lence or mandated services for domestic violence victims. The goal
           of these discussions was to identify philosophical differences and
           agreements and determine how to manage the different approaches
           of each individual sector. These dialogues were solution-oriented
           and an excellent way to promote cross-sector collaboration.25
C11P63 It is evident from this description of “cross-systems dialogues” that prej-
       udice against a mother who has been a victim of domestic violence as
       well as the parent of an abused child (“Why does the parent victim go
       back?”) is still firmly rooted in many of the “family court auxiliaries”
       who are responsible for protecting children who have allegedly been
       sexually abused by a parent. This is a very significant confirmation of
       a problem that has long haunted the family court system. Because it is
       estimated that from 30 percent to 60 percent of cases involving domes-
       tic violence also involve child maltreatment,26 it is inevitable that some
       of the mothers who are domestic violence survivors will be protective
       parents as well. It is thus important that Greenbook-based initiatives
       are challenging a prejudice that can readily turn the family court sys-
       tem against mothers who have endured both domestic violence and
       the prospect of the sexual abuse of their children. These efforts have
       also stressed the importance of supporting a victimized mother through
       every step of the court process.27
C11P64     Other welcome efforts at reform have stressed the importance of
       reducing reflexive “mother-blaming” and focusing instead on the dam-
       age that abusive fathers inflict on families. Even the initial Greenbook


=======

                 OUP UNCORRECTED PROOF – FIRSTPROOFS, Mon. Mar 31 2025, INTEGRA
       Reforming the Court Auxiliaries                                          327
       approach may not have sufficiently prioritized perpetrator-focused in-
       terventions28 —but this appears to be changing, as advocates continue
       to press child welfare agencies toward greater emphasis on stopping
       abusive behavior in ways that do not penalize innocent mothers.29
C11P65    Perhaps one of the most significant changes resulting from these ini-
       tiatives has been the growth and vehemence of public comments on
       the state of the family court system. In April 2019, hundreds of citi-
       zens attended a community meeting in Santa Clara County, California,
       where county leaders discussed “recommendations regarding responses
       to sexual assault and domestic violence.” Audience members stayed for
       three-and-a-half hours to address their own comments to the officials,
       passionately eager “to tell the local leaders about personal experiences
       and the gaps that they saw in services to address domestic violence and
       sexual assault.”30 The days when family court abuses were largely un-
       known to the public seem to be receding into the past. We can only hope
       for a still better future.
